---
layout: post
title: Don't Work, Join A Cult
---

On Dec 31 2019, Paul Graham twote:

> A secret for discovering really great things: look for things that are said to have a "cult" following. 

In my March 24th 2020 blog, I sold my idea that Everybody Should Be A VC. Today I will give my reasoning on why you probably want to invest in a cult.

## What Is A Cult

Cult is not a good word, but here is my definition: A Cult is A Global Consensus on building Sth.

A cult has a really clear and benevolent goal. People's love for it is based on logical reasoning, not religious passion. Bitcoin is building a new form of the Fed. Tesla is Builing a next generation energy infrasturtcure. Microsoft, a computing machine for everybody. Apple, portable Internet.

How to identify a cult, what are the common characteristics? NO.1 A cult always has fanboys making videos on youtube like crazy, that is to say, outsiders love it like family. NO.2 A cult is usually take the form of a company led by a dictator. Think Apple, Microsoft before and Amazon, Tesla now. A dictator is best way to get things done quickly, so I won't invest in any company if it does not have a powerful and famous dictator. But exceptions do exist, Linux is not a company. Bitcoin is just a open standards without a dictator. NO.3 A little smell of politics. Young gen wants to change status quo.

Nothing can be more valuable than a global consensus.

## Teach Favors Big

One million dollar question is that what is the best way to get the consensus deployed.

Small is not beautiful. Allow me to plug my own startup experience. 10 years ago, I co-founded a small software consulting firm. We are still in business today. But it's really hard to do anything innovative, everyday we need to fight for living. Maybe that's why I love Peter Thiel's book Zero to One, because only big guys can afford a 10000 team to build the best OS, phones or cars. 

Why big won? The Internet has taken us to the Winner Take All era. It changed the way bits are moved from point A to point B. The logical next step is that it will change how we move atoms as well. People are not going to use the second best search engine, likewise people are not going to buy the second best designed EV cars. The fact that lots of non-best companies can still grow and get big, is simply because the insufficiency of information. I beleive the Internet will solve this. 

But good high teach companies already very expensive, right? When it comes to invest real money, I will say be brave, even though good companies alreay have a high valuation. If you love sth, buy it now. How big real good companies can be? Please read Rockefeller, J.P Morgan and Henry Ford. Right now, Amazon is selling anything, Tesla fanboys want to see Tesla become a company that builds anything. In the future, I believe there are companies which build and sell anything, think Umbrela in the movie Biohanzard. Big Data makes big organizations easier to manage, big does not mean slow and stupid. 

Big companies will be replaced by open standards one day, but for the short term I love monopolies and will only invest in the NO.1 guy in any industry.

## Don't Work, Learn

IMHO now we have stepped in a era that you don't need to work if you don't need to worry about food for today. Most of your time should be spend on learning and joining a new trend, a new global concensus, a cult.

Firstly there will be no day jobs in the future anyway. Because AI and automation will produce things so efficiently, it's easy to make living in the future, as Elon Musk said: Everything will be very cheap. And put big projects say autonomous cars aside, there will be no room for small life-style business either. Want to sell vegetables or open a local clothes shop? No way, Meituan and Amozon will do that much more efficiently. So why not to spend more time on Art/Literature/Politics or Family. If you really want to do sth, do sth really innovative and inspire big guys, the point is that don't try to make a profitable business out of it, wait to be acquired instead.
 
So maybe we should take learning as our full time job. Building sth new will always be risky. It's highly possible for some specific companies to fail. But that's not a problem, as long as you have enough knowledge, and really undertand the industries, you can still make money. For example, if Tesla fail, we will vote with money to create the next Tesla, that should be easy. Software is eating the world, people who don't understand technology won't be quilfied to be a investor. Right now, the main stream people are still illiterate with technology, so spending time to be a tech-savvy will bring huge advangtage to us as investors. Let me give you a example, In Septembar 2020, Tesla hold a Battery Day, Elon Musk did a fantastic job explaining the new technology Tesla will use to build new batteries, For engineers, that is a exciting huge plan. But because of too many tech terms during the presentation, main stream media considered the event dull, Tesla Stock price dropped 30 percent afterwards. 

So let's learn how technology works in a big and general way. Learn enough first principles in both technology and humanity to make your own judgement.

## Conclusion

After all, what's is the message I am trying to deliever? Learning is more important than working, because it's machines that makes all the wealth in the future not human labor. Only big companies use technology most efficiently, so they will capture most of the value created by technology. Nowadays The secret to be rich is not to work, but to own part of the companies. Behind all the form of cults and companies, it's all about the match of people's need to get things done and the technology to do it. Being super knowledgeable is the only way for you to see the big trends earlier and be part of it. Being the early supporter of some cults is the best way today to push humanity forward while getting rich.
