---
layout: post
title: How to Be Fuckyou Rich
---

It's easy, three steps.

## Love a industry


When I say love, I do mean love. Love means even you lost all your time and money in this industry, you still feel happy. But when asked which industry do you love most last month, my childtime best friend told me, why should I love a industry, I don't love any.


Cool, if you don't love any, guess it's hard to be rich. so how to cultivate your love. firstly, love the world. I read Confucius, since I was 10, and I became a beliver, man is here to make a dent. It's the determination of contributing to humanity that has been guiding my where to put my time and money.


But unlike confucius, I dont seek a position in govs, and I believe technology is everything. so I put all my money on most inovative companies and projects. PERIOD.


## Work With Your Heroes


Find the your heros, and support them with all your money and time. Hate the people you should hate, and fight with your own people. It's still a war between good and evil, I am not kidding.

I love leaders like Elon Musk, Jesen Huang, Masa Son, Jeff Bezos. I put all my money on companies where the smartest young people work for. Yes, standford graduates are the best, Havard and Yale sucks, MIT is declining. Yes, I only work with the best people. I am not a very smart engineer, but I am good enough to know standford students are, so I foucs on where the best young people go.

## Benevolence Is the Biggest Concensus

If you know investment, you may realize, money follow's consensus. If a lot of people believe a industey or company is valuable, money will go to it. And as a early bird to that industry, you may make money.


Problem is, people's idea always change. companies fail. how to pick? I think the biggest concensus is good heart, and most people want the world to be a better place, put invest your money in the company that is working hard on real problems.

don't invest in companies that does not need your money. before a company is taking off, they need money, but when it's already very profitable, even it is still a good company, such as Apple, I wont be interest, cause they dont need my money. Yes, be your own hero, be brave, and you natrually know where you should put your money.


## End

That's it. Mostly be brave, be passionate, have the guts to follow first principles and your good heart. Everything will turn out OK. You don't need to compromise anything to be rich.
